# Java
- Use  `-cp` (class path) flag with `javac` and `java` to specifie where to
find user class files.
    - e.g. for a library that is not at the root of a project directory,
    `java[c] -cp ".:lib_path"` will do the trick.
    - `:` functions as a separator (e.g. as it does in a PATH environment
    variable).

# Python
- Use `" ".join(*iterable*)` to join each item with a space in between.
- "The separator between elements is the string providing this method."

# Bash
- `readlink`command resolves symbolic links.
    - or canonical file names, but use `realpath` for that.
    - e.g. `readlink -f "$(which java)"` will resolve symbolic links and find
    the actual location.

# Functional Programming

## Characteristics
- Pure functions
    - Deterministic: same input -> same output; does not depend on any state.
    - Immutability: no side-effects; does not change any state.
- Immutable variables / Referential Transparency
    - New variables can be defined, but **no assignments**.
    - That means a variable will **always** be the same value.
- Recursion
    - Iteration can't be used because no assignments can be made.
- Functions are first-class citizen
    - It means that functions can be passed to functions as parameters and also
    returned from functions, i.e. use higher-order functions!

## Advantages
- Easier to read, test, and debug as there are no states.
- Used to implement concurrecy/parallelism because of pure functions' immutable
nature.

## Disadvantages
- Restrictions of pure functions can complicate codes.
- Immutable values and recursion can decrease performance. (functions calls ->
stack space)
