# Vim

## Motion - text object selection
- `v_a` vs `v_i`
    - "a" selects "a"n object including white space.
    - "i" select an "inner" object without white space.
- Pair Characters
    - `()`, `[]`, `{}`, `""`, `''`, ` `` `, `<>`, ... 
    - alias: `b` = `()`, `B` = `{}`
    - e.g. `vib` will select everything inside `()`, excluding `()`.
- `dw` vs `daw`
    - `dw` deletes from the cursor location to the beginning of the next word.
    - `daw` deletes the word at the location of the location including white
    space.

## Misc
- insert mode
    - `i_CTRL-G j`, `i_CTRL-G k`
       - cursor one line down / up, insert continued at the start column. 
    - `i_CTRL-R "`
        - put yanked text object in insert mode.
    - `i_CTRL-V I`
        - use to add text to multiple lines simultaneously.
- cmdline-mode
    - `:ls `
        - when using `ls`, the previous buffer is marked with ``.
        - when finished with a file in buffer, `:bn`, `:bd` will remove the
        file from the buffer list.
    - `CTRL-P`, `CTRL-N`
        - can be used to toggle through history of command uses.
- `range`
    - `.` - the current line.
    - `$` - the last line in the file.
    - `%` - equal to 1,$ (the entire file). 
- `gn`, `gN`
    - search forward / backward for the last used search pattern.
- `<<`, `>>`
    - use to shift a line in normal mode; no need to use `v_<` or `v_>`.
- `J`
    - joins lines; can be used with `count` (e.g. 3J) or in visual mode.

## Custom
- `i_CTRL-A`, `i_CTRL-E`, `i_CTRL-K`
    - mimic the behavior of Linux terminal.
    - `i_CTRL-W` and `i_CTRL-U` already work like they do in Linux terminal.
- `i_CTRL-L`
    - `i_CTRL-H` is used for `<BS>`, so I mapped `i_CTRL-L` to `<Del>`.
- `i_CTRL-@`
    - `@` is a space.
    - use to move forward in insert mode.
    - useful when jumping over a parenthesis or a bracket.
- `i_CTRL-J`
    - adds a new line without sending the rest of the line to a new line.
    - useful when modifying only the beginning / middle of a line and then
    continuing to insert on the next line.
    - think of it as `o` in insert mode.

# Markdown
- `>`
    - use to add quotes.
    - start each line with `>` for multi-line quotes.

# Clean Code

## Introduction
- > The only valid measurement of code quality: WTFs/minute.
- craftmanship -> less WTFs/minute
- > [S]pending time keeping your code clean is not just cost effective; it's a
  > matter of professional survival. 
- > It's *your* job to defend the code with [...] passion.
