# Vim

## Normal mode
- operator [number] motion
    - Operators - d(elete), c(hange), y(ank)...
    - The order can be changed, e.g. `2dd` is the same as `d2d`, and easier to
    type.
    - For each operators, its capital counterpart usually applies the effect to
    a line.
    - More on motion tomorrow.
- Redo - `CTRL-R` to undo `u`.
- Cursor Location
    - `CTRL-G` displays the current location in the file and the file status.
        - Useful when `:set ruler` is not used.
    - `line_number G` will jump to that line.
        - Superior to `:line_number` because no need to leave normal mode.
- Search
    - Search Options
        - Case
            - Include (in the pattern) `\c` to ignore case or `\C` to force
            match case.
            - `:set [no]ic` (ignore case)
        - Highlight
            - `:set [no]hls` (highlight search)
        - Increasing
            - `:set [no]is` (increasing search)
            - Searches as user is typing.
- Matching parentheses search
    - `%` will find the matching `{}`, `()`, `[]`.

## Cmdline-mode
- Completion
    - `<Tab>` autocompletes and cycles through, where as `CTRL-D` shows all the
    options.
- Substitution
    - Range
        - `:%s/old/new/g` - substitution happens for the entire file.
        - `:X,Ys/old/new` - substitution will occur from line X to Y.
    - Flags
        - `:s/old/new/g` - `g` does stand for global but in the context of the
        current line.
        - `:s/old/new/c` - `c` stands for confirmation and it will ask before
        substitution.
        - Flags can be combined as well, e.g. `:%s/old/new/gc`.
- external command
    - Use `!` to execute external commands, e.g. `:!ls`.
- write
    - You can select text in visual mode and then enter cmdline-mode.
    - Vim will generate `:'<,'>`; type `w filename` after to write the selected
    text to another file.
- read
    - `:r` inserts the read text below the cursor.
    - `:r filename` or `:r !cmd` (e.g. `:r !ls`).

## Help
- For cmdline-mode commands, search for `:h :cmd`, e.g. `:h :s` for
substitution.
- Highlighted text in help is a link, and can be followed with `CTRL-]` and
back with `CTRL-O`.
- Use `:h user-manual`, a guide designed for beginners, as opposed to
`:h reference_toc`.
